# daacs
The research project Diagnostic Assessment & Achievement of College Skills (DAACS) is supported by a grant from the U.S. Department of Education. This repository contains Oxana Rosca's R-scripts on organization and analyses of the data collected by the DAACS application. The data are not publicly available due to their containing information that could compromise the privacy of research participants.
DAACS includes diagnostic assessments across four key areas of functioning: reading, mathematics, writing, and self-regulated learning (SRL) skills. The assessments are administered prior to students formally beginning their college coursework. The resulting scores are produced by automated scoring algorithms and procedures.
DAACS SRL Survey is a self-report survey to gather information about four key components (scales) of students’ SRL: motivation, metacognition, self-efficacy and strategy use. The four scales consist of 14 subscales, which in turn consist of 3-5 polytomously-scored items (indicators).
DAACS Writing is a 10-item constructed-response assessment. Students are promped to compose an essay of at least 350 words in which they reflect on their SRL survey results and commit to using strategies recommended in the feedback. LightSide, an open source, automated essay scoring program, was trained to score the writing assessments in terms of ten criteria related to effective college-level writing. 
The Mathematics and Reading Assessments are computer adaptive multistage tests with items adapted from state-mandated high school exams used to assess college readiness.
The DAACS Mathematics Assessment includes 30 sets of varying difficulty levels with six dichotomously-scored items per passage. The items assess students’ understanding in the domains of word problems, geometry, variables and equations, numbers and calculations, and lines and functions. Using a computer adaptive multistage testing framework, the application offers to a student a random selection of three to four sets with difficulty levels tailored to their performance on the preceeding set. 
The DAACS Reading Assessment includes 30 passages of varying difficulty levels with six dichotomously-scored items per passage. The items assess students’ understanding of the ideas, language, purpose, and structure of written passages, as well as their ability to make inferences. Using a computer adaptive multistage testing framework, the application offers to a student a random selection of three to four passages with difficulty levels tailored to their performance on the preceeding passage. 
